The four-day work week, while still a contentious and hotly debated issue, is stirring up the world of work across the globe.  Recently, about 3 000 workers from 60 different businesses throughout the UK took part in a four-day work week trial. Its pioneering pilot was the world’s biggest so far.  The programme took place from June to December 2022. Its results are now out and the experiment was a resounding success.  This programme was carried out by non-profit organisation, 4 Day Week Global, the 4 Day Week Campaign in the UK, and the think tank, Autonomy. It also had academic backing, with Boston College and the of Cambridge University Here is what was found in the experiment: “Results are largely steady across workplaces of varying sizes, demonstrating this is an innovation which works for many types of organisations. “There are also some interesting differences. We found that employees in non-profits and professional services had a larger average increase in time spent exercising, while those in construction/manufacturing enjoyed the largest reductions in burnout and sleep problems,” said the lead researcher of Boston College. These results are exciting, according to Karen Lowe, the 4 Day Week SA director. This local leg of the global organisation is currently conducting its own four-day work week trial in conjunction with research by Boston College and Stellenbosch Business School. ‘’These findings are encouraging as they are similar to others that have been conducted. We are starting to see consistency data. What is important is that there are third parties, the academic researchers who ensure an unbiased view and proper results,’’ said Lowe. Twenty-nine companies are taking part in the South African trial, in which employees will earn 100% pay for 80% of the time in return for delivering 100% of the product. Lowe said with Mzansi being a developing country, there were many aspects that had to be incorporated, including load shedding. ‘’When your back is against the wall, you do better, you plan better, you scale better and consult with staff. Load shedding gives these companies the unique opportunity to be innovative and come up with new ways of working,’’ she said. IOL Business