For several years in  Cameroon, the trend among chefs has been the progressive ditching of local cuisine  in favour of Western  gastronomy.  Cameroonian chefs, supported by  Afro-American colleagues, are working to reverse this trend through the first Diaspora Kitchen festival, which aims to promote traditional Cameroonian cuisine. "We are the ambassadors of this cuisine, of certain dishes that tend to disappear. For example, the leaves of  foléré  are unfamiliar to many except in the northern regions, many do not know that we can highlight this. So, that's the goal, this why we are invited today to showcase these dishes that tend to disappear" explained chef  Armand Ewodo . Another chef,  Eloge Fankam , showcased the advantages of pre-prepared  koki . "Well, this is flour based  koki , I make traditional  koki  with red oil as we do conventionally. But the advantage with this product is that it is already prepared. We don't have the time to wash the seeds and work on them, to remove all the skins and impurities, it's already clean, we just add water, we add the elements, salt, chilli and then red oil", he said. Cameroonian cuisine is rich and diverse. The Diaspora Kitchen festival  is the first of its kind. According to the organizers, the festival aims to standardize and codify Cameroonian gastronomy and train local professionals who work in hotels and restaurants teaching them traditional dishes to  introduce to the public. "Using stock cubes is not good for your health, using too much salt is also not good and the same applies to oil. We have to go back to the source of what we did before. Because a grilled fish with a  maillonaise  which is only a substitute product, it has no flavour and it's a chemical product, it is necessary that we Africans, Cameroonians, realize that we are turning towards something which can destabilize our culinary education even for our children and future generations", affirmed  Christian Abegan , an expert in gastronomic strategy. The transmission of this  culinary heritage  was done through tasting sessions focused on  traditional dishes . A  festival  dedicated exclusively to the culinary art that came to celebrate the  Cameroonian cuisine. Africanews  correspondent in Cameroon,  Lambert Ngouanfo , added: "At the end of the exchanges between  Cameroonian and Afro-American  chefs, culinary standards were defined to allow traditional Cameroonian dishes and meals to be more attractive in restaurants both in  Cameroon  and abroad. The objective of the organizers is to make Cameroonians stop rejecting their own culinary heritage in favour of meats, poultry and other dishes imported from Europe or Latin America".