Vatican City, Holy See – Thousands of Catholics paid their respects on Monday to former pope Benedict XVI at the Vatican, at the start of three days of lying-in-state at St Peter’s Basilica before his funeral. They began queueing before dawn to view the German theologian’s body, which was transferred early Monday from the monastery in the Vatican grounds where he died Saturday aged 95. “I arrived at 6:00 am, it seemed normal to come and pay homage to him after all he did for the church,” said an Italian nun, sister Anna-Maria, near the front of the queue that snaked around the edge of the vast St Peter’s Square. Benedict led the Catholic Church for eight years before becoming the first pope in six centuries to step down in 2013, citing his declining and physical health. His successor Pope Francis will lead the funeral on Thursday in St Peter’s Square before his remains are placed in the tombs beneath the basilica. Benedict’s body was laid out Monday on a catafalque draped in gold fabric in front of the altar of the church, flanked by two Swiss Guards. Many of those filing past took pictures on their smartphones of the body, which was dressed in red papal mourning robes with a gold-edged mitre on his head, while some prayed or made the sign of the cross. “The atmosphere is very intimate,” Francesca Gabrielli, a pilgrim from Tuscany in central Italy, told AFP inside the basilica. She said Benedict was “a great pope, profound, unique”. Benedict died at the Mater Ecclesiae monastery, which had been his home for the past decade, his last words in the early hours of Saturday said by the Vatican to have been “Lord, I love you!” His body will lie in state for three days, with members of the public allowed in during the day, before a funeral on Thursday that will break new ground. Benedict’s shock resignation created the extraordinary situation of having two “men in white” – him and Francis – at the Vatican. Papal deaths usually trigger the calling of a conclave of cardinals to elect a successor, but this time Francis remains in post, and will lead proceedings. The Vatican has yet to release details of the guest list, beyond saying that it will include delegations from Italy and Benedict’s native Germany. Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, who at the weekend joined world leaders from Joe Biden to Vladimir Putin in paying tribute to Benedict, was among the first to visit his body on Monday morning. She was greeted by Archbishop Georg Gaenswein, Benedict’s long-time aide. The last papal funeral, of John Paul II in 2005, drew a million faithful and heads of state from around the world, although Benedict was a more divisive figure. A brilliant theologian, he alienated many Catholics with his staunch defence of traditional values and as pope struggled to impose his authority on the church as it battled a string of crises, including over clerical sex abuse. His successor cuts a very different figure, an Argentine Jesuit who is most at home among his flock and has sought to forge a more compassionate church. Pope Francis paid tribute to Benedict in three New Year’s events at the Vatican over the weekend, “thanking God for the gift of this faithful servant of the Gospel and of the Church”. Francis, 86, has raised the prospect that he might follow Benedict’s example and step down if he became unable to carry out his duties. In July, suffering knee problems that forced him to rely on a wheelchair, he admitted he needed to slow down or think about stepping aside. Last month, Francis revealed he had signed a resignation letter when he took office should poor health prevent him from carrying out his duties.  Former Pope Benedict to have simple funeral after lying in state The body of former Pope Benedict XVI, who died on Saturday, will lie in state in St. Peter's Basilica on Monday and remain there for three days before his funeral, which is set for January 5. Here are the initial details of the ceremonies, as outlined in a Vatican statement. LYING IN STATE Until early Monday morning, Benedict's body will remain in the small monastery within the Vatican where he lived. No official visits to see his body, or public prayers, will be held during this time. On Monday it will be moved to St. Peter's Basilica, where the public can view the body from 9am to 7pm on January 2, 3 and 4. FUNERAL Benedict's funeral will be held on Thursday, January 5 in St. Peter's Square, in front of the basilica. The ceremony will start at 9:30am and will be presided over by Pope Francis. Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said that following the wishes of Benedict, the funeral would be simple, solemn and sober. Papal funerals typically draw heads of state from around the world, but the Vatican has said that official delegations will come only from Italy and from Benedict's native Germany, suggesting the event will be relatively low key. Representatives from other countries or organisations can attend in a private capacity, diplomats were told. BURIAL The Vatican said that after the ceremony, Benedict's body will be taken back inside St. Peter's Basilica and buried in the Vatican Grottoes, beneath the church, where more than 90 popes have found their final resting place. In 2020, Benedict's authorised biographer, Peter Seewald, was quoted as telling Bavarian newspaper Passauer Neue Presse that the emeritus pope had prepared a spiritual testament stating that he wanted to be buried in the same crypt where John Paul II was originally laid to rest in 2005. John Paul's body was later moved following his beatification in 2011 to a chapel on the main level of the basilica next to the one where Michelangelo's Pieta is displayed. AFP & Reuters