WORDS ON WEALTH The Advertising Regulatory Board recently introduced a section in its Code of Advertising Practice on the marketing of crypto assets. Strangely, the code does not have much to say on the marketing of regular financial products, but the section on crypto is quite detailed. It reflects another, broader, code, which marketers of all financial products need to take far more seriously, in my view, and which you, as a consumer of financial products, should be aware of: the General Code of Conduct for financial services providers under the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services (Fais) Act. If consumers were more active in complaining about misleading advertising, product providers would be far more circumspect about crossing the line, which, in my opinion, they do frequently. One example is the insurer’s boast, which goes something like this: “Get up to R5 million in life cover, from only R200 a month.” The phrase conflates the minimum monthly premium with the maximum amount of cover, and never the twain shall meet in a single policy. In all likelihood R200 a month will get you only a few hundred thousand rands in cover if you’re healthy and under the age of 25. Another example is the ongoing “abuse” of interest rates by institutions offering interest-bearing investments, which I have written about a number of times. The only way to compare interest rates is to use the standard measure, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR): this is the rate at which your money will grow annually, giving you a compounded return if you reinvest the interest. But providers have twigged onto the fact that you can seduce consumers with a more attractive higher rate if you compound the interest over, say five years, and then divide that by five. A CAGR of 10%, for example, is presented as a non-CAGR simple annual rate of 12%, but would you know that if it wasn’t pointed out to you? It’s not only mainstream media advertising that can be misleading; it can be investment information that is factual but is presented in a biased way. Take the average fund fact sheet, now known as a minimum disclosure document, or MDD. Most show a graph of the fund’s performance since inception against the fund’s benchmark, such as a market index. Typically one sees increasing divergence between the fund and the benchmark in the fund’s favour. I have two problems with this: first, it shows a compounding return, with growth and distributions reinvested, giving you an exponential curve that can mask periods of poor performance; and second, the graph applies only to an investment made at inception – if you invested more recently, the curve might look decidedly different. A far more realistic performance graph is one that plots rolling one-year returns, but it’s very rarely you’ll see one of those, because it gives you a warts-and-all picture. I digress. Let’s first look at the ARB’s crypto code and then at the marketing section in the Fais General Code of Conduct. Crypto code According to a recent article in Norton Rose Fulbright’s weekly newsletter by the law firm’s head of technology and innovation, Nerushka Bowan, advertisements for crypto assets must: Crypto asset advertisements should not: Fais code Late last year, the Financial Sector Conduct Authority declared crypto assets financial products. Anyone marketing any financial product in South Africa is subject to the Fais General Code of Conduct. Here’s a summary of some of the main rules: In short, ads and marketing material should not create unrealistic expectations for the buyer. PERSONAL FINANCE