Dear Mr. President, This open letter brings together many of South Africa’s most significant manufacturers and retailers of food  and other essential products, such as quick service restaurants and medicines. We take our responsibility to feed and sustain the nation very seriously. We work tirelessly, night and day,  to produce food and household products, secure healthcare products, and to ensure they are always  available in our stores when customers need them. The consumer goods industry’s contribution to the GDP is significant and is also the country’s largest  employer. Millions of people depend on us for their livelihoods. We are alarmed and dismayed by the levels of load shedding which we have all had to endure over the  past decade, and which have escalated catastrophically in recent months. While we have maintained our operations and supply chains so far by using emergency power generators,  this has been at an unsustainable financial cost. It is crippling our businesses, and will in the end mean  much higher prices for consumers, who are already under severe financial strain. The deterioration of other essential infrastructure – including water, roads, rail, and policing – all make our  tasks, and those of thousands of other businesses around the country, even more difficult. If this crisis continues, we will not be able to guarantee stable supplies of food, medicines and other essential  goods. The government needs to understand this, rather than believe we can maintain business as usual. We require urgent and decisive action from government to solve the crisis, and specific steps to ensure that  the consumer goods industry can fulfil its role as an essential service for every family in the country. These steps must include: We look forward to hearing your plans for action in the 2023 State of the Nation Address (SONA), giving  due consideration to the proposals put forward in this letter by the Chief Executive Officers who are  signatories. We will continue to work tirelessly to sustain our customers and communities. We will support government where we can and ask urgently for decisive action from you. Gareth Ackerman Johann Vorster is the Co - Chair and Zinhle Tyikwe is the CEO of the Consumer Goods Council of South Africa. Issued on behalf of the following industry CEO’s: ** The views expressed do not necessarily reflect the views of Independent Media or IOL. BUSINESS REPORT