With the current high cost of living in South Africa, consumers will be deal-hunting this Valentine’s Day, while still trying to spoil their loved ones.  Many will be looking to make a move on their long-time crush, or just simply flourish in the romance of the day with their partners.  Businesses, however, will be looking to capitalise as Valentine’s Day is the next big commercial shopping event following Black Friday and the festive period.  Many businesses are looking to attract love-struck consumers to their stores, especially after the South African Reserve Bank hiked interest rates late in January and the petrol price increase in February, not to mention the rolling blackouts imposed by ailing state-owned power utility, Eskom. Many consumers will be looking for deals and specials when it comes to their wallets and spending.  Business Report  spotted a few deals that some of the more popular stores and restaurants in the country will be running for Valentine’s Day.  Check them out below:   Two doughnuts for the price of one at Pick n Pay:  You 'doughnut' want to miss this deal! What you say? It's buy 🍩 and get 🍩 FREE! One for you & your Valentine❤️🥰 . So, spread the love and head on over to your nearest store. Valid in-store until 15 February, so hurry. pic.twitter.com/l4mz3H09AX With #valentinesday around the corner, Pick n Pay QualiSave is the answer to all your Vday needs! With us you’ll get to share the love for less, with our range of sweets & treats for the perfect gift. But first, who you’re spending Valentine’s day with this year? pic.twitter.com/2kb7UV5Tbi NetFlorist comes to the rescue of those last-minute lovers: Sucker for love? Prove it! If you are in the market for some home appliances, Makro South Africa can help you kill two birds with one stone, as you will receive a R2 000 jewellery voucher to spend when you purchase the appliance below:  Share the love this Valentine’s day with LG. Buy the LG Matte Black QuadWash & receive a R2000 Swarovski gift voucher with your purchase. Valid until 19 Feb 2023. https://t.co/bw0RH2nY1rTs & Cs Apply pic.twitter.com/6uCQcbKo4P Of course, they also have some specials running on their alcohol and chocolates:  #SelfLove is the best kind of love you can gift yourself this Valentine’s Day! ❤️ Treat yourself to some sparkling bubbles and delicious chocolates. Shop these sweet deals in-store or online at Makro, while stocks last: https://t.co/TkNKH2Fpct #SelfLove #Bubbles #ValentinesDay pic.twitter.com/xfDaw9XFK8 The Sorbet Group is offering a discount at their stores for Valentine’s Day: A post shared by Sorbet (@sorbetgroup) KirspyKreme South Africa have unique love-themed doughnuts for those with a sweet tooth:  A post shared by Krispy Kreme South Africa (@krispykreme_za) Speaking of a sweet tooth, McDonald’s SA says you can get a free McFlurry on their app for Valentine’s Day:  Free McFlurry for everyone on the McDonald’s App tomorrow 🥺Not getting a match doesn’t mean you can’t still celebrate Valentines. 😍 #McDMealMatch What were the best #ValentinesDay specials that caught your eye by businesses in South Africa? #ValentinesDay2023 An array of eateries have also offered a range of specials for Valentine’s Day.  Check them out below, or click here:  A post shared by The Hussar Grill Monte Casino (@hussargrillmontecasino) A post shared by BelugaCapeTown (@belugarestaurant) A post shared by Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton (@radissonblusandton) A post shared by TANG ™️ (@tang_waterfront) A post shared by Olives & Plates (@olives_and_plates) A post shared by Radisson RED Rosebank (@radissonredrosebank) A post shared by The Oyster Box Hotel (@theoysterbox) BUSINESS REPORT