Johannesburg - The announcement of a new minister of electricity at the 2023 State of the Nation Address, has raised the ire of many South Africans, who now wonder if there would be other a minister of potholes, service delivery and corruption too. The announcement on Thursday night by President Cyril Ramaphosa has invoked wild and hilarious reactions from ordinary citizens. The new minister will be expected to focus solely on the ongoing load shedding crisis, and has the tough job of ending the crisis. President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement of the new post, which will be within the Presidency, during his address on Thursday evening. “To deal more effectively and urgently with the challenges that confront us, I will appoint a minister of electricity in the Presidency to assume full responsibility for overseeing all aspects of the electricity crisis response, including the work of the National Energy Crisis Committee. “The minister will focus full-time and work with the Eskom board and management on ending load shedding and ensuring that the Energy Action Plan is implemented without delay,” said Ramaphosa. ANC secretary general Fikile Mbalula quipped that the new minister must be ready to hit the ground running as he would be expected to eat, sleep and drink at Eskom. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan, who remains the Eskom shareholder, will still be expected to play his role within the power utility and will also be overseeing the energy transition programme. “So as to remove any confusion, the minister of public enterprises will remain the shareholder representative of Eskom and steer the restructuring of Eskom, ensure the establishment of the transmission company, oversee the implementation of the just energy transition programme, and oversee the establishment of the SOE Holding Company,” said Ramaphosa. Mbalula on Friday also compared the the minister of electricity to a “project manager” in dealing with the energy crisis in South Africa. Social media users have weighed in with mixed reactions regarding the decision to add a new minister. Twitter user @LudidiVelani said: “Two minsters responsible for Eskom, Pravin Gordhan and Gwede Mantashe. Two deputy ministers under these ministers. Eskom board. Eskom sustainability task team and the national energy crisis committee. Now there will be Electricity Minister 🤧” #SONA2023 #SONA” Two Minsters responsible for Eskom, Pravin Gordhan and Gwede MantasheTwo Deputy ministers under these ministersEskom boardEskom sustainability task team and the National energy crisis commiteeNow there will be Electricity Minister 🤧#SONA2023 #SONA  @MsakaWaLekhosi said: “We have the minister of water and now the ANC has given us the minister of electricity. Soon there’ll be a minister of potholes followed by a minister of unemployment. SONA 2023.” We have the minister of Water and now the ANC has given us the minister of electricity. Soon there'll be minister of potholes followed by minister of unemployment. SONA 2023 pic.twitter.com/5wFDiXu5PE @MmusiMaimane said: “So let me get this straight, the trip to Davos was cancelled, meetings were held for the whole of January and the best plan that all the President’s advisors, task teams and panels could come up with was #MinisterOfElectricity?” So let me get this straight, the trip to Davos was cancelled, meetings were held for the whole of January and the best plan that all the President’s advisors, task teams and panels could come up with was #MinisterOfElectricity ? We have a corporate governance disaster brewing at @Eskom_SAPravin Gordhan - Executive Authority @GwedeMantashe1 - Policy Minister Minister of Electricity - Assumes the role of the Board and the CEO if I understand Mbalula properly. Who then is the Accounting Authority pic.twitter.com/uifNteW5eX  The new Minister of Electricity when asked if they have an immediate plan to ensure electricity supply for all, every day, always: pic.twitter.com/55TENPqX8n Our minister of electricity first day on the job. pic.twitter.com/vsGUyqtM9Y  So President @CyrilRamaphosa is going to appoint a Minister of Electricity. Can we expect a Minister of Potholes, Minister of Service Delivery and Minister of Corruption also soon? 😂 Obviously when the minister of Electricity arrives at work, he’s going to say I’m alone here, I must appoint;- Assistant minister of electricity - Premier of electricity- Mayor of electricity - Secretary of electricity- Spoke person of electricity - MEC of Electricity when you ask the minister of electricity why there's still loadsheddingpic.twitter.com/efP2Co1FOa  And finally... One thing is certain - the Minister of Electricity will have no power. #SONA2023 IOL