By Lettie-Basani Phume The year has unfortunately not started well for some as they have fallen prey to scams and fraudsters. Companies have been inundated with queries from those already caught out and others checking before they part with money or waste their time. As the job market becomes increasingly competitive, the fraudsters know that job and interview opportunities are highly sought after, and this is where the criminals can take advantage of unsuspecting jobseekers. The methods used by fraudsters are becoming more and more sophisticated and convincing. Impersonator profiles mimicking well-known or search-able employees pretend that there is a not-to-be missed investment or a job with high pay and good benefits. Fake Facebook and Twitter profiles often include pinched photographs and accurate biography details of the person they are impersonating, making the con that much more believable. Recently a group of jobseekers from the North West province were promised both an interview and a half-day of training for the cost of transport to offices in Centurion. After paying for transport people were left disappointed when the transport did not arrive, and they found out that neither the interview nor training were real. Advice is always to report the scammers to the police, but by the time the con is revealed, their mobile numbers are discontinued, and they disappear. One of the most important things to remember is that legitimate employers and agencies should never promise interviews or work in exchange for an up-front application fee. This includes training or transport costs or favours. There is also no good reason for an employer to ask for your bank account details prior to securing a job. This is a red flag that the opportunity may not be legitimate. To help protect potential jobseekers from these types of employment scams, here are some general tips for staying safe during the job search: Lettie-Basani Phume is the Group Human Capital Executive at Momentum Metropolitan BUSINESS REPORT